So, when we talk about development or
deploying applications,
there are what I would consider
three viable options for doing this.
So the first viable option is
generating your static files and
putting them somewhere and
serving them up.
I would say one of the most
viable targets for that, and
I use it fairly frequently is S3.
Is that when you generate your
Angular application that you can take
those files and
you can put them into S3 behind a CDN.
And it's highly, highly performant.
And so I would say for
deploying an Angular application,
that one of the best ways to do that.
And this is with any React,
or any of these,
is that if you're just generating static
files that exist within your dist folder,
you can pick those up
even put them into S3.
And you can point a CDN to it, and
you are absolutely good to go.
Because you're just rendering files,
you're just serving them up.
Where you would need to
do something different is
that if you're doing like
server side rendering.
Which if SEO is a concern for
your application, and it's not often, but
it is a thing that you can use server side
rendering to increase your performance.
Now that is where I would put
like that into a Dockerfile.
And then I would deploy that.
And because you have to have a server
typically express that's rendering those
things and then serving that up.
But if you don't have that, or you're not
actually doing server side functionality,
a very viable candidate is to
just put your Angular application
in S3 behind a CDN Cloud in this case,
and you're good to go.
Now, which leads to I think
on the other side is that,
you put your Angular application
into Docker and you deploy it.
Now there's kind of an intermediate step
that I think is really, really good.
And you have these platforms like Heroku,
Vercel which I think was now or
a site previously,
that you very quickly can kind of
put those things up and deploy them.
And so,
one of the sites that I use on a semi
frequent basis it's actually for sale.
So I always knew it as Zeit, but
I just want to quickly show this example.
So what this allows you to do, and
I have a pro trial now but
there's a free plan,
is that you're able to plink
this to your GitHub repo.
So essentially,
I just allowed it to grab the repo.
And then from here, under the hood,
is it set up a bunch of stuff and
essentially deployed this for me.
And so I can go under the hood here,
and everything
that we're seeing here is
the same exact things that
we saw from our trusty command
line as we are running this.
And so this is when we're running this and
we're building this that what
we're seeing in our command line,
it's essentially doing in the Cloud.
And so it's basically building this and
it is deploying it.
So not only am I able to build
to a specific or build it and
deploy, but
I can actually do it against branches.
And so if I go back here, you can see
that is I push up these branches that
it's going to generate a deployment for
that branch.
Which I think is pretty cool.
And from here, I can just click
on this Deployment link and
from here go ahead and click on this and
you can see this application.
Now the one piece that I
haven't hooked up that would
not be hard to do is doing
the same thing for the API.
But you'll notice here that I have
deployed this into a publicly
accessible domain, and
this was incredibly easy.
It took me less than, I would say five,
ten minutes, or less.
And the only thing that I had to do is,
let me see if I can pull this up,
that within this project I had to,
here we go.
So the one thing that I had to change to
get this to work is you notice it has
a framework preset, which is awesome that
I had to set my output directory to,
well, where's it being built to?
So I just overrode that.
And I was able to then point it
to dist/app/dashboard, done.
And what I could do is even go
into here and take this.
And I could in theory and
I don't know if I want to do
this immortalize this forever.
But you could go in here,
override this, and do ng build--prod,
and save that make it even better.
So there's ways to configure that.
So this is a real quick example.
This is using Vercel which was designed
for a very, very long time but
you have your constatic deployment option.
Then you have your Docker option, which
we'll show in just a moment how to build
that and
then kind of what we can do with that.
And then in the middle of that,
we have platforms like Vercel, Heroku,
even DigitalOcean that allows you to
very quickly what I would consider
kind of these intermediate platforms,
to go ahead and deploy that.
And so when I'm working with developers,
and we're working through concepts,
that it's not enough to just
build an application and
submit the repository for me that I
also want them to deploy it somewhere.
And so I've used Zeit now for
sale for a long time for this.
So it's really,
really handy when you're developing and
sharing your work with even QA or
to a stakeholder that not
only do you build the application or
you submit the code.
But it's built, and
then it's done in such a way
that when you want to
communicate that it is working.
Then all I have to do is say,
hey, QA engineer or whatever,
I've went ahead and
I've implemented this feature.
Can you click on this app and
verify that it works?
And so this is an example that I think
it's important using Vercel or use Heroku.
But Vercel is a really
quite a good platform for
just hooking it into your GitHub repo.
And once you point it to that right
distribution directory is that you
essentially get this for free.